#LyX 2.0.0beta1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 407
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_xetex false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Benchmarking methodology
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Benchmarking-methodology"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this section we describe which testing framework we used and which tests
 we implemented.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Framework
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to compare the performance of the generically derived instances
 and their handwritten counterparts we needed a testing framework.
 We adapted the benchmarking framework used in the paper by Magalhães et
 al.
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Magalhaes:2010p568"

\end_inset

, to work with UHC instead of GHC.
 Only minor adjustments were necessary, which were mostly due to UHC not
 supporting the same flags as GHC.
 The framework allowed us to automate all the tests and to set the different
 optimization flags O0 - O3, which we wanted to compare.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All tests are compiled individually as stand-alone programs and then run
 a specified number of times.
 The average execution time and the standard deviation are then printed
 to screen or to a file.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Benchmarks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We set up tests for 
\family typewriter
Eq
\family default
 and 
\family typewriter
Functor
\family default
, because they both use the generic deriving mechanism.
 Each test was implemented once using the generic deriving mechanism and
 once with hand-written instances.
 For 
\family typewriter
Eq
\family default
 we compared two big trees (~1.5 million nodes) and two big logical expressions,
 which were provided by the testing framework, for equality.
 For the 
\family typewriter
Functor
\family default
 test, we mapped (+1) over a big tree.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Each of the six test cases was then run with the four different optimization
 levels for a total of 24 tests.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
